*Bhagavad Gita Chapter 1*

From the war of mahabharatam we got two powerful informations one is Bhagavad Gita by Krishna, two Sir Vishnu Sahasranamam By Bhishma

Chapter 1 Main points before going forward with Chapter 2

Dhṛtarāṣṭra ask the following to Sañjaya because, Sañjaya has yogic power to see to travel to a place and see and tell others.
Dhṛtarāṣṭra (Father of Kauravas) asking Sañjaya, "if his sons and pandu sons changed their minds after reaching the holy place Kurukṣetra. And are they returning back to Kingdom as happy brothers", because he don’t want his sons to die.


Sanjaya sees and says the story of what was happening at battle field.
Both brothers sons of pandu and kauravas formation of military arrangements were done. Duryodhana going towards his teachers,
Duryodhana was soo pride and that he have Dronacharya and Bhishma. But having no fear of other member that Pandavas have except Arjuna and Bhima, as they both are the only equivalent fighters to Dronacharya and Bhishma.
Duryodhana was even recalling the great fighters and great chariot fighters.

Still, Duryodhana was seeking help from Dronacharya to organize the army and to make few captains to lead the army. Duryodhana was happy as Pandavas army was limited.

Duryodhana was always envious of Bhīma because he knew perfectly well that if he should die at all, he would only be killed by Bhīma. But at the same time, he was confident of his victory on account of the presence of Bhīṣma

Duryodhana clearly felt that the victory of the Kurus depended on the presence of Bhīṣmadeva. He was confident of the full support of Bhīṣmadeva and Droṇācārya in the battle because he well knew that they did not even speak a word when Arjuna’s wife Draupadī, in her helpless condition, had appealed to them for justice while she was being forced to appear naked in the presence of all the great generals in the assembly.

Duryodhana blowing his conchshell very loudly, thinking he had already won the war. After that, the conchshells, drums, bugles, trumpets and horns were all suddenly sounded, and the combined sound was tumultuous.

In contrast with the conchshell blown by Bhīṣmadeva, the conchshells in the hands of Kṛṣṇa and Arjuna are described as transcendental. The sounding of the transcendental conchshells indicated that there was no hope of victory for the other side because Kṛṣṇa was on the side of the Pāṇḍavas. The chariot on which both the friends were seated had been donated by Agni (the ﬁre-god) to Arjuna, and this indicated that this chariot was capable of conquering all sides, wherever it was drawn over the three worlds.

*Lord Kṛṣṇa* is referred to as *Hṛṣīkeśa* in this verse because He is the owner of all senses. Here on the Battleﬁeld of Kurukṣetra the Lord directly controls the transcendental senses of Arjuna and gave direction to Arjuna on the Battleﬁeld of Kurukṣetra., and thus His particular name of Hṛṣīkeśa.

the particular types of conchshell blown by the different personalities on the side of the Pāṇḍavas, beginning with the Lord’s, were all very encouraging to the ﬁghting soldiers. On the other side there were no such credits, nor the presence of Lord Kṛṣṇa, the supreme director, nor that of the goddess of fortune. So they were predestined to lose the battle – and that was the message announced by the sounds of the conchshells.

Sañjaya informed King Dhṛtarāṣṭra very tactfully that the whole Kuru dynasty would be killed in that great battle, because he encouraged the policy followed by his sons.

Arjuna asks Lord Krishna (Since Krishna rides the chariot), please draw my chariot between the two armies so that I may see those present here, who desire to fight, and with whom I must contend in this great trial of arms. Arjuna wants to see those who have come here to fight, wishing to please the evil-minded Duryodhana.

As per Arjuna, Lord Kṛṣṇa drew up the fine chariot in the midst of the armies of both parties, and krishna obeyed, and shows the Kurus military.

Now Arjuna standing in the middle of battle field after krishna drew the chariot. Arjuna can see armies of both parties, his fathers, grandfathers, teachers, maternal uncles, brothers, sons, grandsons, friends, and also his fathers-in-law and well-wishers. Immediately Arjuna became weak and compassionate about the family and friends. Arjuna feels he is like dead and lost as his bow and arrows were slipping and skin was burning.

Arjuna says these "unable to stand here any longer. I am forgetting myself, and my mind is reeling. I see only causes of misfortune”

Arjuna starts crying and says the following "I do not see how any good can come from killing my own kinsmen in this battle, nor can I, my dear Kṛṣṇa, desire any subsequent victory, kingdom or happiness.”

Arjuna asks Krishna: "when teachers, fathers, sons, grandfathers, maternal uncles, fathers-in-law, grandsons, brothers-in-law and other relatives are ready to give up their lives and properties and are standing before me, why should I wish to kill them, even though they might otherwise kill me? O maintainer of all living entities, I am not prepared to fight with them even in exchange for the three worlds, let alone this earth. What pleasure will we derive from killing the sons of Dhṛtarāṣṭra? how could we be happy by killing our own kinsmen? When irreligion is prominent in the family, the women of the family become polluted, and from the degradation of womanhood, comes unwanted progeny. An increase of unwanted population certainly causes hellish life both for the family and for those who destroy the family tradition. By the evil deeds of those who destroy the family tradition and thus give rise to unwanted children, all kinds of community projects and family welfare activities are devastated. “

Arjuna after spoken on the battlefield, cast aside his bow and arrows and sat down on the chariot, his mind overwhelmed with grief.
